What have the intravening weeks taught me?
Besides the renewed horror of wordlessness?

Nearly two months ago I embarked on a quest for a new home
for this "ongoing" work.
Having barnacled so easily onto the hull of "that great cavernous vessel":http://houseofleaves.com
But encountering also, predictably, my share of immaculate scrappers:
Bean-counting barna-cullers insistent on streamlined datapoints,
which is uncharitable but also accurate —
I need not be so aggressive.
But then I need not write at all, either.
As was made abuntingly clear.

I have not abandoned that place. At least not deliberately.
For in addition to the protractors, there dwell also
open source hermenauts and silent scuttling lizards
for whom my "work" may hold some continued interest.

Audience shapes performance.
When the audience throws stones, an actor can clam,
Claw, or clamor for different attention.
The room's already full, though. The lights
already counting to the next scene change.

In the face of repeated peals of conflict, I quietly stepped
out the side door and began constructing a new theatre.

Here we are.

The setting warps the performance, too,
and a noisy desk delays research.
I haven't been sure of what to put here,
Of the voices to deploy,
And of too many other technical wiggles.
The habits of writing and riting I'd established
have dissolved back into the either.
It wasn't nearly as clean a task as moving everything over here
and simply resumpting.
Should've known.

What I'm after now is a reclamation of -comfort-,
of comportment at least with my space here,
a sense that, while no place is safe,
this phase is appropriate for my work.

"Awns":http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Awn_hair and "awns":http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Awn_(botany) are all over.
"Sous rature's":http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sous_rature in full effect.
I -hope- this yawning is one we can both take shelter under.
I'll try not to obscure too much, in this process of unrevealing.
Unravelling.

What we do here is unclear.
Enactly.


:render_as: Textile
:page_title: Journal 01

