Everything Goes.

Drive this home.

Throughout {Only_Revolutions}, "going" gets a prominent place.

"Here I go. Here goes. Not I.
Allways."
"British 708 & Fujiyama,
130 go."
"And *Morning Glory* goes."

Going can be dying, and it can be moving.
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;These events. Can be moving.
Motion as well as motion's ceasing.
When the commotion stops, that's a type of movement,
from one phase to another.

Sam & Hailey each mention letting go several times,
Almost allways in proximity to revulsion, revolt,
as here when Sam gleefully flatulates until The Creep capitulates (H/68):

bq. "So loud The Creep's revolted 
enough to let go."

The other side of which page features the vows of marriage,
of "She squeezes my hand."

Or to commitment, the unrepulse within a held wrist (S/102):

bq. "Poor Hailey won't let go,
fingers moonslivering my wrist. 
Clatter of wheels."

The reverse page features a Widower lamenting
Love won't wait.
He who couldn't take a wrist.

As is everything else that's Now Here,
"Letting Go":http://www.circasurvive.com/album/on-letting-go/ is complicated.

"Danielewski spoke":http://youtu.be/U0wRp-2wsLQ?t=9m11s of materialism in writing,
and alleges that {Only_Revolutions} steps around that by refusing to repeat objects
or entities within a scene.
Let us note here that his example of Sam taking a drink
from a cup-goblet-flute-mug
doesn't actually occur within the book (so far as I can tell).
Doesn't have to; it's a simple example that rings true.

Allways a new car, animal after animal,
BIKER GANG is THIS CREW is THESE TWINKS.
VIARAROPOLIS is VIARIROPOLIS is VIATITOPOLIS.

Or are they? They take on a continual presence without ever solidifying,
in the same way their slangshifting prevents a temporal pinpoint,
and the vowel movements stifle even the certenty of diction.

The Ongoing Party, with all its outwardly-varied enticements and snares.
The Ongoing Hangover, same party, different day.

...

Well?
So what?

:render_as: Textile
:page_title: Journal 02

