It's not about newness.

...

And this isn't about originarity.

...

"This pursuit includes my own scumbling footfolds."
Or so I wrote the other night in the ballet bathroom.
Atlanta's Woodruff Arts Center,
The Atlanta Ballet,
An earth-taking dance/poetry mutation
"All about Atlanta."

Marc Bamuthi Joseph, Daniel Bernard Roumain, &
Amy Seiwert's 7.

What a fucking torrent. Took a staged man's
Rapid diction, a violinist's
Contorted effections, and a ballerina's
Heart work to make clear
That I've got
Ties.

They blurred us through a city's history.
Recantations so fast I could only feel them
as the breezes of each street's passing.
Atlanta.
Where I've known and been denoted.
Distant beckon of rope.
Where my distrusted fallen brothers still squat.
Where an only holy brethren thrives.
Where I've frequently traversed, where
a bench before the now-erased border recalls
certain struggle and where R. Thomas always
manages to reunite me and mine.
We once walked barefoot for thirty blocks
because What Would Regina Spektor Do, and god
Your feet needed to breathe.

It's a history that creates a place.

Where I've seen both sides of North Avenue holding
my last conversations.
Where I've moved friends in and out of houses like
frittering electrons. 
Nobody bonds satisfactorily here.
Chemical balancing a too apt. allegory.
Where I've fled the darkening sky's prescient lights
Under various pretenses, suspicions
Of wear, of love, and of certain due.
m.
Atlanta, where I've never stood unclothed.

It's a history that cremates a place.

...

So in the ballet's bathroom, I scrawled
"This pursuit includes my own scumbling footfolds."
Thinking of you, sweet Awn. Thinking of
Your needs, and how to secrete them.

I've been asked quite plightly to omit my purse
null debt
tails.

Elsewhere, welsewhere.

I think they are, at least for now—
For as long as I've known how—
Personal details are very nearly all.
Deeply personal becoming universal becoming
Painfully personal and therefore.

What's the point of poetry if not chemical reaction?
What's the blade of poetry if not disco(mfort)(very)?
What's the pummel of poetry if not a handhold?

What the heft of poetry if not its wait?

There. Now _that's_ a question.

:render_as: Textile
:page_title: Journal 03

