And just like that, the
Canopy glows.

I'd been thinking, "Nah, should I?
Again?"
It's consistently infusive muse
ic, a steady pace for making
more "clackity noises.":http://www.kungfugrippe.com/post/169873399/clackity-noise
It's accompanied me through many darkening
screens of variably-valued verse.

Abuse comes to mind.
The threat of it.
Abuse and overtotemizing.
Imbuing -externalities- with my own vigor.
The wizard's staff.
The lich's phylactery. The "horcrux.":http://www.urbandictionary.com/define.php?term=horcrux The ritual. The "familiar.":http://www.employees.org/~claycle/WFRP/rules/familiars.html

I'm afraid of trusting part of my sovereign might
to anyone else.
If the staff can be destroyed, it makes the wizard "vulnerable.":http://thenewtrust.bandcamp.com/track/get-vulnerable
Accepting that vulnerability
(if the stories can be interpreted usefully)
Affords one with even greater power.
And, yes, eventually the ring is crushed. The {lt sword}
broken. The crow or cat or cauliflower soul-trustee held ransom.
Even killed.

If something isn't inevitably to be lost or taken,
There's no real risk.

Ritual music runs the risk of eventually diminishing in utility.
Or, worse, of... what? Taking credit it doesn't deserve? Or of
Actually helping!

So I let some other album play, fine enough but
too noisy, too fast to get out of the way
so I could write.

Continued to dally. Dragged pieces around.
Until I heard the familiar opening.
The computer shuffling albums, taking me where I'd
Wanted to go in the first place.

Anathallo's "Canopy Glow.":http://www.amazon.com/Canopy-Glow/dp/B001H775B2/
If it were vinyl, I'd have already ground it flat with
Repeated spins. That good.
And always ready to accompany me to dangerous promise lands.
Rhythmic enough to keep me moving,
Obscure enough to leave my language centers unencumbered,
Beautiful enough to keep me gently sighing.

I'm afraid I might need totems to clutch as I press
Farther into confounding territory. Where everything
Starts to look like everything else, and plenty makes
Sense, but it isn't getting any easier to move.
In fact, the yearned-for familiarity may breed constraints.
Build borders. Engender hoarders.
Condone the entitlement of Deeds, of landed lordship.
The lure of royal bruises.
The weight of "ermine":http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Stoat cloaks.

Is a treasured song's assurance just that {lt j02, materialism}'s re-gloved grip?

...

This isn't a place for answers. Not nearly.
This place isn't even a place. Not really.
It's the -shadow- cast that never lasts,
The burning screen's burnt-on offering.
The memory of some particles' passing, the
-Signs- left longering while neither you nor I
Were-- peeking.

Promises dismayed. Hopes asway.
A rhythmic relinquishing of rule.
What's rule-linquished ree-ell-ligned.
Where mastery and mast airing meet.

Wherein our host is hoisted high
And we see both
Noose and throne, both
Knotted oak and cheary hearth,
Wherein home may be where we hang

Or where our hats go.



:kind: Journal
:page_title: Journal 04

