I'm no Jacques Derrida.

...

I look at the scope of his work.
The scale, and the scuff-marks left on my
beautiful original wooden floors
by the weight of this Frigiderr,
Full to burstin' with such choice cuts,
as I 'eave and 'o and sweat my back into it,
trying to move the damn thing down the hall
to the kitchen.

By which I mean to write that it's heavy drifting,
and slow glowing.

Thoroughly furrowing.

And quite fun, too.

...

He and I

...

I've now read the first half of _Writing and Difference_, and
about a third of (plus the lengthy translator's preface) _Of Grammatology_,
both as translated into English by Alan Bass and Gayatri Spivak,
Respectively.

Every time I tell someone that I've been "reading Derrida,"
or more recently that "I'm reading text written by Jacques Derrida,"
— which even that isn't quite the right way to phrase it,
but it's better than the -academic- "reading [Author]" —
or when someone sees me headed to breakfast with one
of these books tucked under my arm, the response
has been one of dismay or disbelief.

"Heavy reading for first thing in the morning."
Funnier than the newspaper comics, I say.
"I can't read theory. It's just too... theory."
I was unaware of even a category of writing that could be
referred to as "theory". Must not have paid attention!
But I get the name and I understand it, except...

Well, who's this for right now? To whom am I justifying?
I'll cut quicker.
I'm thoroughly enjoying these books.
They're taxing me, and that work invigorates.
I'm poorly-educated on the histories of philosophy and linguistics,
at least as Derrida approached them,
but he tells me what I need to know to move along with him,
and it's enough.
What I'm learning is fascinating.

Most crucially, I'm not "reading Derrida" because a class requires it.
Or because I want people to think I'm fancy for bringing
"theory" to my morningtime biscuit celebration.
Which no one thinks, rightfully.

The approach vector is one of curiosity based on Danielewski's
Obvious breadcrumbs.
Curiosity which has already been rewarded amply.
Detailed thoughtpaths through the grounds that Danielewski, Borges, and
Others curate corners of.
Impractical practice space.
Vigorous investigations of the spaces I've developed interest in
over the years. Specifically, if I think carefully,
Over the years since I first read House of Leaves.

An accelerant, a crucial fuel so far omitted.

...

I and He

...

I'm compelled by the scope of these projects.

Derrida's writing over several decades orbiting around,
I think, similar territory with increasingly-varied but
consistent results. Whatever that means.

Danielewski's painstaking dedication to gradually introducing
pieces that don't appear to have anything to do with each other,
working toward the -same- unknown -ends-.

Arising out of some insight, some consideration, something
worth writing toward over years and years.
Known to whatever extent, maybe well, maybe not.
Possibly something that emerges over time and toward which
the pieces are sculpted. Most likely that.

And I'm compelled by what these texts _do_.

I'm compelled by this, and by my increasing -understanding- of the How,
because I've long been pulled in that direction.
Have made forays out.
Without offering any excuses,
Haven't gone far at all.

Most plainly, as I think I've said elsewhere,
I want to write.
I want to better read these texts.
Writing about them is the -only way- to do that.

Works out pretty well.

...

e and i

...

Except when the writing is difficult.

(I know that's the wrong thing to write.)

Especially when the writing is difficult,
it must be written.
But when I'm able to really read maybe 10 pages of Derrida's books a day,
and though I _thrill_ to certain passages and constantly underline, transcribe, and
Attempt to begin to have something to write about them...

I'm left speechless, most days. Clackless.
I don't know what the hell to _do_ with what I've read.
The images connect, the words all rhyme
Excitingly, I wander the woods
Waving my arms in front of me,
Gathering connective indicative webs until my hands look like
Cotton candy cloudlets.
Bound by the plurality of all that couldn't be discussed.

And when I know that each page will undo, redo, and reinstate all
Previous pages...
(Especially when my writing target is something to be posted immediately
to a web site, which is something in need of adjustment, too)
How am I supposed to write anything at all?

I'm pretty sure that's my attachment to "writing in the narrow sense."
Because even as I write that I feel its wrongness.
Writing is not always a proclamation
(He proclaimed in writing),
Not a taking of stands.

Alan Watts told me earlier,

bq. And we are finding our rock getting rather worn out in an age where it becomes more and more obvious that our world is a floating world, it’s a world floating in space, where all positions are relative and any point may be regarded as the center; a world which doesn’t float _on_ anything, and therefore the religious attitude appropriate to our time is not one of clinging to rocks, but of learning to swim. And you know that if you get in the water and you’ve nothing to hold on to, and you try to behave as you would on dry land, you will drown. But if on the other hand you trust yourself to the water, and let go, you will float.

Writing can be a flotation device.
A way to relinquish control of your thoughts to find out what you really think
(For a moment, anyway),
Or perhaps better put,
Writing is action, it's a motile verb, it's _the way_ that, for me,
_Thinking_ does anything at all. 

I don't know if I'm getting any of this right.
That's why I'm writing it down at all.

If I'm to have anything -productive- happen,
It's going to take a whole lot more writing. More reading, yes,
More breathing, more motion.
More of a lot of things, and less of most things.
Which I find very exciting. And terrifying.

I don't know whether Derrida would agree with me on anything,
Nor am I sure that I "agree" with him on anything yet.
Accord isn't what I'm after.
I'm the after of the chord.
The shaking of what's struck.
The air's living quiver.

No, I don't know if Derrida would shake his head at this,
though I'll keep wondering;
And with that unknown, I'll say it anyway because it's what I can say at this moment.
I hope I'm close, and I hope also that I figure out in what ways I've
Been wrong, and that I can adjust as I go.

Of all that terrifying, exhilarating change,
Whatever else it entails or prepurrs us for,
Participation is key.
And if I'm to have anything at all written, it can't wait.
It won't be easier to recap afterward;
There will be no afterward.
Even after I put the book down, I'm still trying to read and write it.

Best to acknowledge that and join in willingly.
To {l choose} it, whether there's really any choice there or not.

So I do.

:render_as: Textile
:page_title: I'm No Derrida
:kind: Journal
:updated_at: Fri Aug 12 12:25:51 -0400 2011
