While I can't really respond well to personal usages of these impersonal symbols, let me just note here that I've always been a little curious as to why Danielewski didn't play more with upside-down text. One huge paranoia-inducing opportunity is that were "snow" capitalized it would allow SNOW( )MONS (mound, mountain) which is just too damn perfect. (Of course I think Danielewski's after bigger game than inducing psychedelia, but he certainly seems to enjoy making his symbolic spaces as densely interconnected as possible.) This seems like something he would have noticed; why he might have avoided it is totally unclear to me.

For rigor's sake, I went quickly through the Spectrum font in which Sam and Hailey are set to look for symmetries; Danielewski's interviews suggest that he was very font-conscious for OR, presumably in more than name, so symmetries that DO exist are presumably significant. I really don't know my typography, so I've invented descriptive terms when needed--sorry. Lowercase d, b, p, and q are almost symmetrical, except the placement of line thickness on the circle differs between d&p and b&q, and the shape of the long-staff serif differs between b&d and p&q. u and n are rotationally symmetrical. Capital H, lower-case but NOT upper-case s, upper-and lower-case o, upper- and lower- x, and upper- and lower- z are rotationally symmetrical. Lower-case l, upper-case N, and again upper-case S are NOT symmetrical.
OK, that was pretty pointless.

:page_title: p()d - ducknerd's reponse
:author: ducknerd
:kind: Kind
:render_as: Textile

