h3. From "Star Struck" by Ken Croswell, published in _National Geographic_, December 2010

bq. Because we reside within the Milky Way, we actually know less about its overall appearance than we do about distant galaxies—just as absent a mirror, you know more about your friends' faces than your own.

...

bq.. Every now and then, the black hole swallows a bit of gas, a wayward planet, or even an entire star. Friction and gravity heat the victim to such high temperatures that it lets out a scream of x-rays. ... Surprisingly, the black hole also catapults stars away. In 2005 astronomers reported an extraordinarily fast-moving star some 200,000 light-years from the galactic center. "It was serendipitous," says Warren Brown at the Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics. He was searching for "star streams"—remnants of small galaxies the Milky Way's gravitational pull has torn to shreds—when he found a star in the constellation Hydra racing away from the galactic center at 709 kilometers a second, or 1.6 million miles an hour. At that speed, it will escape the galaxy's grasp and sail off into intergalactic space. By 2010 Brown and other astronomers had discovered 15 more of these hypervelocity stars.

In a remarkable display of prescience, Jack Hills, while at the Los Alamos National Laboratory in New Mexico, had predicted just such a phenomenon. "I was actually rather surprised that the discovery had taken so long," says Hills, "but I was certainly delighted." In a 1988 paper, Hills wrote that if a binary star—two stars orbiting each other— ventured too close to Sgr A*, one star of the pair could fall toward the black hall and go into a tighter orbit around it, thereby losing an enormous amount of energy. Since the laws of physics dictate [sic] that energy be conserved, the other star would gain an equally large energy boost, flying away at tremendous speed. Over the Milky Way's lifetime, says Brown, the black hole may have flung a million stars out of the galaxy in this fashion.

Despite the violence around the black hole, the galactic core is a fertile place.

:render_as: Textile
:page_title: Star Struck
:kind: week1

